hi everybody welcome back my name is
Alison the online piano and the arno
violin cheater today I'm going to be
going through lesson 13 from my learn to
play the piano book to which you see
behind me this is a follow on from learn
to play the piano book one where we had
lessons 1 to 10 this book behind me is
100% downloadable which means that you
can get this book wherever you are in
the world and if you want to know where
to get the book from they'll either be a
link coming up above my head now or I'll
put a direct link in the description bar
underneath this video along with links
to the other lessons in this series so
lessons 11 to 20 so let's get started
with lesson 13 lesson 13 - octave scales
so I'll pair some information for you to
read on - octave scales I'm not going to
read all that out to you because you can
read that when you've got the book but I
am going to show you about the two
octave scales and I am going to show you
how to play them and basically
demonstrate them so a two octave scale
one octave scaler is eight notes or two
octave notes a two octave scale is just
double the amount of nodes a two octave
scale is just double that over one
octave scale but we have to do some
slightly different fingering in the
middle just to make it work so as you
can see here I blocked off the first
scale or that what we've been just been
doing over the page but with the right
hand instead of finishing with a finger
five we have to when we get to four
instead of putting five dome we then
tuck our thumb under to get us ready to
start a new octave and then we carry on
the second octave as normal so I'm going
to start off by playing all the scales
through separate hands and then I'll
play them together so this is C major
scale
tucking under tuck under again it's
normal three as normal for to take us
back down to the first octave three as
normal so when you're doing a normal
scale which would be here and then your
second octave scale is here you're
tucking under the and crossing over the
three as usual but when the fall comes
in is when you want to take it from one
octave to the next octave so this area
here which is what I'm trying to explain
in here is the kind of crossover section
between the end of the first octave and
the beginning of the second octave
that's where fall comes in so when
you're doing a normal scale it's always
tucking under and crossing over three if
you want to make it from a one octave
scale to a two octave scale then you
have to tuck under four and obviously on
the way back down you cross over four
I'm going to do the left hand
so to make it into another octave that's
where four comes in top under three as
usual so I need to go to another octave
so I'm going to type my thumb under
three as usual
and to do that together
ah
scale of d right hand
left
Oh
together
f-major remember you've got the fourth
finger there
you
Oh
together
and G major
No
left hand
remember when you do these skills that
you just need to be one octave apart so
you don't want to be starting the left
hand there on your right hand there you
want to be starting sort of one octave
apart so 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 notes apart
Oh
now a minor
together
Oh
No
I'm D Mya
together
and that's it with the scale so I just
finish this lesson 13 with just a few
hints and tips so you can read those and
also what to do now so again it tells
you how to practice these what to do
when moving forward and that kind of
thing so my advice would be to practice
these hands separately first also make
sure you've got hang up the one octave
ones first so the one octave scales make
sure you can do them with the right hand
make sure you can do them with the left
hand make sure you can do it together
before you even attempt doing the two
octave scales once you're happy to move
on to the two octave scales make sure
that you can do the right hand
separately nice and good nice and
perfectly make sure you can do the left
hand separately nice and perfectly and
then try them hands together don't do
anything hands together until separately
is absolutely fine or you'll find you
get yourself into muddled thank you very
much for watching lesson 13 I hope you
enjoyed it like I said the link to get
the book and all the other videos will
be in the description bar directly
underneath this video and I look forward
to seeing you in lesson 14